President Jacob Zuma has announced the salary increases for various government officials for 2018, following a pay freeze in the 2017. Salaries and allowances of different categories of Public Office-Bearers are determined by the President, after taking into account, amongst others, the recommendations of the Independent Commission for the Remuneration of Public Office-Bearers (the commission). The commission recommended a 0% increase for most government officials in 2017, on the back of tough economic conditions that hit the country. While South Africa’s economy still struggled through 2017, the commission recommended a small increase for officials in 2018. The increases range between 4% and 8%, with ministers and their deputies on the lowest end of the scale. With CPI currently sitting at around 5%, most adjustments fall under inflation levels. After considering, among others, the recommendations of the commission and the performance of the economy, Zuma said he has accepted the commission’s recommendations for all categories of Public Office-Bears except for the Magistrates. The Magistrates Act, 1993, requires salaries of the Magistrates to be approved by Parliament. The President therefore requested Parliament to approve that salaries of Magistrates be adjusted by 5.5%, not the 6% recommended by the commission. Zuma approved/recommended the salaries be increased as follows: 4% adjustment 
Members of the National Executive and Deputy Ministers
Members of Parliament: From the position of the Speaker / the Chairperson of NCOP to House Chairperson
Members of Provincial Executive and the Speaker of the Provincial Legislature
All Judges
 4.5% adjustments 
Members of National Parliament: From position of the Chief Whip: Majority Party to Member: National Assembly/Permanent Delegate: NCOP
Members of Provincial Legislature: From position of Deputy Speaker to Member of Provincial Legislature
Traditional Leadership: King/Queen
 5% adjustment 
Traditional Leadership: From position of Chairperson: National House of Traditional Leaders (NHTL) to full time Deputy Chairperson: Provincial House of Traditional Leader (PHTL).
 5.5% adjustment 
All Magistrates
 6% adjustment 
Traditional Leadership: Full time member of NHTL and full time member of PHTL and sitting allowances of all members of the NHTL and PHTL.
 8% adjustment 
Senior Traditional Leaders
 The Commission further recommended for the adjustment of the remuneration of the Headmen and Headwomen to R106,106 and the extension of the medical aid benefits currently applicable to Traditional Leaders with effect from 01 April 2017. Read: Zuma’s salary vs other world leaders