BCX is investing R100 million to grow scarce digital skills in ICT infrastructure and software programming alongside cybersecurity, fintech and artificial intelligence over three years in partnership with the Cape Innovation and Technology Initiative (CiTi). The three-year project will be called CiTiX- Futured by BCX and will train a minimum of 250 candidates each year in industry-led digital skills using CiTi’s CapaCiTi programme skills development and job readiness methodology. CiTi’s Jobs Fund grant also unlocks great operational efficiency and scale that the CiTiX will leverage. Recruitment will start in December 2017 and the programme will launch late January 2018. “As an organisation, we’re passionate about technology and the innovation that it allows to improve the lives of South Africans — especially the youth,” said Ian Russell, CEO of BCX. “Being digital activists, we fully support initiatives that will remove barriers to entry for South Africans, so they can become key players in the digital space and fuel Industry 4.0. “We’re creating an exciting ecosystem of new skills, tech businesses and knowledge streams as a pipeline for digital growth through our partnerships with the Tshimologong Precinct at Wits University, Propella in Port Elizabeth and the Bandwidth Barn in Cape Town where CiTi is based.” Students will obtain industry-relevant technical training in software programming and ICT infrastructure, and will also incorporate five key skills streams: Operations Technology, Cybersecurity, Fintech, Geomatics and Artificial Intelligence. The programme will equip them to support and manage products and services in Agritech, Marinetech, Fintech and Cybersecurity, to name a few. The programme forms part of an arsenal of digital transformation initiatives BCX has co-created. Also to launch in the new year is the Explore Data Science Academy, which BCX is supporting to grow data analytics capability. CiTiX – Futured by BCX, will take unemployed previously disadvantaged South African youth through a career-readiness pathway, equipping them with the technical and inter-personal skills needed for success in the knowledge economy. Acting as a bridge between education and employment, the programme design ensures graduates are fully supported and experienced to immediately add value on hire. Read: 7 top skills in demand by companies in South Africa