Cyril Ramaphosa has won the battle to be the next president of the ANC, having secured the most votes at the party’s 54th conference. The result came after two days of nominations and voting, which stretched into the early hours of Monday morning. The results of the vote were delayed by more than an hour, after some from the losing side demanded a recount, according to reports. The vote was a narrow race between the two candidates, with only x votes between the Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. 4,708 votes were cast – 99% of the total credentials accepted. The final ANC top six are as follows: 
President: Cyril Ramaphosa
Deputy president: David Mabuza
Secretary general: Ace Magashule
Deputy secretary general: Jessie Duarte
Chairman: Gwede Mantashe
Treasurer general: Paul Mashatile
 Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma were the only candidates nominated for the role of president. Ramaphosa received 2,440 votes, vs Dlamini-Zuma’s 2,261. The position of deputy president was contested by David Mabuza and Lindiwe Sisulu, with Zweli Mkhize and Naledi Pandor declining their nominations. Mabuza got 2,538 votes, and Sisulu got 2,159 votes. The nominees for national chairperson were Gwede Mantashe and Nathi Mthethwa. Mantashe secured 2,418 votes, and Mthethwa secured 2,269 votes. The fight for secretary-general was between Senzo Mchunu and Ace Magashule. Magashule secured 2,360 of the votes, compared to Mchunu’s 2,336. The choice for deputy secretary general was between Jessie Duarte and Zingiswa Losi. Duarte secured 2,474 votes, retaining her position. Losi secured 2,213 votes. Candidates for treasurer general were Paul Mashatile and Maite Nkoana-Mashabane after Nomvula Mokonyane declined the nomination. Mashatile received 2,517 votes, vs Nkoana-Mashabane’s lower total of 2,178. Mixed-slate The outcome of the voting process showed a mixed-slate result, with candidates from both the Ramaphosa camp and the Dlamini-Zuma camp taking spots in the party’s top 6. Notably, new ANC deputy president David Mabuza was running-man to Dlamini-Zuma, as was the case with new secretary general, Ace Magashule, who was also on her ‘slate’. ANC leaders have been fighting strongly against so-called slate politics (where delegates typically vote for the top six by slate, rather than individually), which has been the status quo in the past. Read: D-day has arrived for Ramaphosa, Dlamini-Zuma and the future of the ANC