Gauteng is currently undergoing massive infrastructure development with over a R100 billion being invested in more than 800,000 houses within 30 residential developments, across five designated development corridors. According to the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements’ (GDHS), these developments form part of a new mandate to shift away from sporadic and uncoordinated developments to purposely planned and developed “Mega Cities” that are completely self-sufficient in providing for the housing, economic and social needs of the community. These new post-Apartheid cities will be rolled out in phased stages in the identified five mega city corridors, the department said. Each mega city will be different but some features include both free-standing and multi-story walk-ups, gas reticulation systems, renewable energy, solid waste and waste water recycling, and connectivity. They will also feature a number of school, universities, hospitals and transport hubs. In addition to the proposed mega city developments, the department said that it was working on a number of other localised “mega projects” including a new 30,800 unit, multi-storeyed, mixed-use development in Alexandra and major developments in and around Lanseria airport. The GDHS said that it will begin the roll out a number of the Mega Cities Programme in this financial year. Cullinan Mega City The Cullinan Mega City Development is situated on a 180 ha land in Cullinan within the City of Tshwane. It will be based just off Collin road and within a 2 km radius to Cullinan CBD and 4 km within the Cullinan Diamond Mine and Refilwe Township. It is also 45 km from Tshwane CBD which makes it possible for residents to work and live within a reasonable distance, the department said. “It promises a dynamic modern mixed-use new-town development with a range of housing types aimed at a socio-economically stratified market requiring a diverse product mix and unique settlement form,” the department said. “The development includes public facilities, open space and commercial business activities. Walkability and public transport usage will play an important role in our offering. “The aim of the development is to create a liveable destination for all walks of life which promotes community integration.” The department said that it anticipates that the project will create over 250 direct and indirect jobs.  Daggafontein Mega City The Daggafontein Mega Housing Development is located within the Greater Springs Area and is adjacent to Edelweiss Extension, South of the N17 Highway. It is designed to be a Smart City Development, with the aim of providing world class housing as well as addressing challenges that have existed in the past and continue today. This will include 15,511 subsidised Housing units with a total of over 17,000 units spread over an area of 750ha. The Development has been divided into three portions A, B and C. The anticipated Construction period for the total Development is five years. Some of the unique features include: 
Houses are designed to allow the owner to expand their building if required.
The Developer will provide open-air training and fitness facilities in the parks.
Smart Streetlights
Free Public Access Internet Connection
Installation of Fibre Optic Internet Infrastructure (Underground)
Solar Farm
Separate medical, retail and education developments.
    Goudrand Mega City The site is situated adjacent to Randfontein Road/Main Reef Road (K198) and west and adjacent to Dobsonville Road. Currently the whole township is known as Goudrand Ext 4 and it will be subdivided into 15 different phases to be known as Goudrand Ext 5 to 19. The proposed Goudrand Ext 4 development is an integrated development consisting of 13,000 plus potential housing opportunities. The first phase of the development is a mixed use project comprising of 13,197 housing opportunities in a mix of 1,204 Residential 1 bonded units, 1,325 Residential 1 FLISP units, 10,668 Residential 3 units, 5 educational sites, 3 shopping centre sites, and 7 crèche sites, 8 worship sites, a hospital site, a cemetery and municipal sites. The FLISP houses will be freehold houses and 3-Storey walk-up sectional title units while the BNG units will be built as duplex units consisting of a living/kitchen area and bathroom on ground floor and two bedrooms upstairs and single units in 3-storey blocks.  John Dube Mega City The John Dube Mega City project has already launched, with construction beginning in Duduza in Ekurhuleni. The development will include: 
A civic and business centre
Seven primary schools;
Three secondary schools would be built.
Eight business facilities
53 parks would be established and community gardens
Full medical facilities including a hospital.
 The aim of the Project will be to maximise the unit yield whilst remaining environmentally sustainable and cost-effective, the department said. “In as far as the urban environment, the town planning scheme has indicated the need and the inclusion of various public facilities and other amenities with emphasis on non-motorised transport throughout the development.” “It is anticipated that there will be a mix of visitors and residents, and dynamic movements of people throughout the area during the course of the day, week, and over weekends. “Environmental sustainability is an aspect with underlying importance, and in this project, various systems that contribute to that will be promoted at macro or micro level with wetland areas in the middle of the proposed scheme adding yet another interesting element,” it said.   Stinkwater Mega City The Stinkwater development will take place on a 440ha area in Zandkop. The department estimates that over 20,000 jobs will be created with lifetime plans to invest approximately R2.2 billion. This will include 9,495 housing units, business developments, churches, schools, creches as well as a number of parks.  Read: The average house, flat and complex prices in Cape Town’s 20 most affordable suburbs