Seeff’s property agents have selected a round-up of Cape coastal villages that offer everything that you could possibly want in a holiday or retirement destination, and at a semi-affordable rate in most cases, close to the beach and other attractions. Whether you choose the West Coast or the Southern Cape Coast, Seeff said that the villages are generally within 2-4 hour’s drive from Cape Town with easy airport access. They all have a laid-back fishing village vibe with beautiful fynbos scenery, a rocky coast and kilometres of white sandy beaches where you can indulge in water sport from sunbathing, boating and yachting to surfing and fishing. Most are surrounded by nature reserves and stretches of fynbos and offer plenty of opportunity to indulge in leisure and adventure pursuits, from horse riding to mountain biking, hiking and birdwatching. On the West Coast, just over an hour’s drive from Cape Town, is the largely unspoilt village of Yzerfontein, very popular with Capetonians as their weekend and holiday getaway. Despite the overall economic and property market decline, Seeff said it has enjoyed an excellent two years of trade in the area. Because of its close proximity to Cape Town, Yzerfontein has emerged as one of the most popular West Coast villages, despite its lack of commercialisation. Prices range from around R2.2 million to around R7.8 million for a large house with sweeping views of Table Mountain, Dassen Island and the Atlantic Ocean.  The spacious home comes with double-volume living areas and stunning finishes including fireplaces and wooden floors, four lavish bedrooms, the master suite with a dressing room, walk through bathroom and uninterrupted sea and beach view’s as well as a separate self-contained guest cottage. Just under two hours’ drive from the city, located on its own bay is St Helena Bay. Karin Holloway, an achiever agent from Seeff said that the town is situated along one of the richest parts of the ocean where the cold Benguela current surges upwards, bringing nutrient rich waters to the bay and an abundant sea life. Snoek and fish sold straight off the boats is just some of what you can enjoy here, she said. The bay is popular for whales to visit and calve and from August to November annually, you can catch the Southern Right Whales and even Humpback whales. Property prices are still accessible in St Helena Bay. An exciting option, is a new development offering Fisherman’s styled cottages, priced from just R692,000 for a two-bedroomed unit. Houses are generally priced in the R1.9 million – R6.7 million for an excellent location. Closer to the city, is the ever-popular Langebaan with its stunning lagoon and yacht club and broad mix of property options priced from around R1.8 million -R18 million. Although it now boasts shopping centres, stunning holiday resorts and a new Curro School, it is still very laid-back. A popular option for the golfing enthusiast’s bucket list, is the Langebaan Country Estate with its 18-hole Gary Player Designed, Black Knight golf course according to Jaco Coetzee and Marelize Huysamen from Seeff. The estate includes a club house with a driving range and facilities for conferencing, restaurants, swimming pool, a gymnasium, tennis courts, bowling green and hiking and cycling trails. It is located next to the renowned West Coast National Park and it offers an outstanding quality of life with no pollution and an environmental consciousness according to the agents. The surrounding fynbos and Renosterveld landscape lures wildlife such as bontebok, springbok, large varieties of South African tortoise species and abundant birdlife. Huysamen said that it offers a mix of freehold properties (797) and Sectional Title (83). Houses currently sell for R9,000-R12,000/sqm depending on the location. In 2016, some 157 units sold and for 2017, it is already standing at 163. Langebaan Country Estate is one of the only estates where you can still find a home of 239sqm at a remarkable price of R2.695 million said  Coetzee.  Located in the sought-after Langebaan Country Estate, an exclusive golf estate, this 239sqm home includes three bedrooms, an enclosed braai room flowing into an outdoor entertainment area, priced at R2.695 million.  The 600sqm double-storey comes with four bedrooms, all with luxurious en-suite bathrooms, plenty of living space, extras such as a study, a cinema room as well as a wine room and an entertainment area with sliding doors to a patio and pool. The home is modern with beautifully styled finishes throughout. It is priced at R5.88 million. Just over three hours’ drive from Cape Town on the Southern Cape Coast, is the village of Arniston (also known as Waenhuiskrans) renowned for its stunning Fisherman’s cottages and architecture. Elaine Beyers from Seeff said the market has been good lately. During the last year to 18 months, she concluded 12 sales including a record price of R8.9 million. House prices tend to range from about R2 million to around R8 million for a front-row beach house, but now go as high as R18 million for a spectacular 673sqm architectural masterpiece in a contemporary style that is on the market. It comes with five en-suite bedrooms, the main with a private lounge area, dressing room and two balconies, one used as a private outdoor shower with sea views. Extras include a braai room, laundry with a drying room, enclosed roof garden room for meetings, early morning coffee or late afternoon sundowners while watching exquisite sunrises and sunsets. Finishes include porcelain floor tiles, Caeser stone kitchen tops, Travertine exterior cladding, Cedar wood exterior shutters, an integrated sound system and tinted windows for UV control and enhanced privacy. There is also an outdoor entertainment area, chlorinated pool and water-wise fynbos garden. The property is also well-suited as exclusive hospitality facility, said the agent.  Another stunning village that must make every property bucket list, is Witsand, about three and a half hour’s drive from Cape Town. According to Jo Attenborough from Seeff, the village offers something for every buyer and budget. Aside from being an excellent holiday destination, Witsand is ideal for retirement buyers she said. In addition to the beautiful Blue-Flag beaches, there is also the Breede River where you can find river-view property. There are a number of developments to choose from as well. Prices range from around R1 million to about R5 million for a luxury home, but Attenborough said there are plenty of affordable options to choose from. he value is well-illustrated when you consider that a large family home with five bedrooms and bathrooms located in a small up-market private gated estate on the banks of the Breede River estuary, also ideal for a stunning B&B/Guest house, is on the market at just R4.25 million, she said.  Read: What to expect from South Africa’s property market in 2018