As the summer season kicks off in Camps Bay, realtor Seeff says that two of its area agents have concluded a record five sales in five weeks to the total value of R91.9 million. Although Camps Bay sales for the year already top R850 million, the agents pointed out that the average time on the market is 188 days overall. Propstats data also showed huge price volatility with price cuts of 15%-20%. This, the agents said, highlights key market challenges including sellers not being in tune with prevailing market prices and are using other overpriced listings to guide their price expectations. This means that most sellers are therefore not getting serious buyers through their doors, and consequently properties are sitting on the market for long periods of time, over six months on average, Seeff said. The second challenge is that many of the properties are on open mandates as sellers are under the mistaken belief that this will give them a better chance of success. Seeff said that two of the properties were sold before they were even launched to the market. Prices ranged from R13 million to R25 million including a Barley Beach apartment which sold for R20 million to a UK-based South African expat without even seeing it. It was bought for holiday use. Other buyers include a German client who bought a home in Ottawa Road (R13 million) for holiday use and a Gauteng buyer relocating to the city who paid R25 million in The Cheviots along with two locals, one upgrading and one down-scaling. Outside of Clifton with 14 sales, Camps Bay has attracted the highest volumes of R20 million-plus sales this year at 13. The agents said that the five best buys in the market here right now include: Property 1 – The Azure – this new development offers just four luxury residences designed to the highest standards close to the beach and with sea and mountain views. Each unit has a large open-plan dining, lounge and family room, a bespoke chef’s kitchen with integrated appliances and separate scullery, four bedrooms with en-suite bathrooms, air-conditioning, a private pool, green features including low-voltage LED lighting and solar water heating, well-point water and secure basement parking with access control. The development is scheduled for completion by mid-2019. Price: R21.95 million plus VAT  Property 2 – A multi-storey home set on over 1000sqm with a lovely garden, sea, beach and mountain views, a formal and informal lounge, huge wrap around patios and a swimming pool, three bedrooms plus a separate apartment, staff accommodation and a three-car garage. Price: R20.895 million  Property 3 – This Bali-designed home is close to the beach and promenade and boasts sea and mountain views, high ceilings, five bedrooms, an expansive entertainment deck with a pool, terraces and balconies and multi-car garaging. Price: R23.95 million  Property 4 – Is a seldom available opportunity to transform an older house into luxury home on large 1235sqm plot in Deep Glen or take advantage of the subdivision potential. The property offers sea and mountain views from the upper level, a large four-bedroomed house with a Jacuzzi, swimming pool and garden. Price: R20 million  Property 5 – A Glen villa located within walking distance of the beach with sea and mountain views, large entertainment areas that flow to the outdoor pool and tropical landscaped garden and extras such as a separate guest apartment/teenager pad and staff accommodation. Price: R24.95 million    Read: Expect big changes in SA’s property market in 2018