Media and internet giant Naspers says that news reports are trying to bait the group into intervening at Multichoice to get the Gupta-associated ANN7 off the air. In a statement released on Friday, the group responded to various media reports making accusations against the company for being linked to Gupta deals and secret meetings with government. Notably, in the Friday edition of the Mail & Guardian, former communications minister Yunus Carrim alleged that Naspers chair and former CEO Koos Bekker, had aggressively chased encryption laws in the favour of Multichoice. Naspers on Friday did not deny this. “A suggestion by ex-communications minister Yunus Carrim that Koos Bekker once met with him regarding encryption is perfectly accurate,” it said. “Here are the facts: this meeting took place in Pretoria and was for the full duration also attended by Minister Pravin Gordhan, whom we greatly respect. Minister Gordhan can attest to the content of the meeting and whether any Gupta-related or any other illegal matter was discussed.” The group said that the media reports appeared to be a “persistent baiting” for the company to intervene in the affairs of Multichoice, and was clearly intended to pressure Naspers to force Multichoice to take ANN7 off the air. “That channel is closely associated with the Gupta family and, given the recent exposure of corruption linked to them, it is felt inappropriate that they should have a voice on television and that Multichoice should facilitate that.” “We understand the frustration some people feel that a channel associated with corruption is still being broadcast. But the nature of a satellite platform is to provide the largest number and the most diverse voices for the public to choose from,” it said. Naspers said that the public decides what to watch, and that media freedom and diversity are values worth protecting in an open democracy. “We do not think it wise to terminate a channel that participates in the debate about ANC succession barely two weeks before the elective conference,” it said. “In conclusion, while we understand the frustration, we also suggest that further baiting of Naspers to override Multichoice in this matter is not conducive to an open democracy.” Read: Multichoice launches investigation into ANN7 deal