The main opposition party, the Democratic Alliance, has released its annual report card for government ministers and their departments. The DA based its ratings on the the following criteria: 
The mandate of the ministry or department;
Its performance over the past 12 months;
The DA’s response to its performance.
 On the basis of this assessment, the President, Deputy President, and each Cabinet Minister and their department are scored on a scale for “A” to “F”. An “A” is the highest score achievable, with an “F” being the lowest. This year no ministers received an “A” or “B” rating, with just two ministers receiving a “C” rating. In comparison there were 12 “E” ratings and 18 “F” ratings. You can find the ratings detailed below. The DA has published the full scorecard on its website. President: Jacob Zuma (F) “After the ANC suﬀered the loss of three metros in 2016, a result that followed the President’s sustained assault on the country’s democratic institutions, one would imagine that 2017 would be a year of introspection and self-correction for Jacob Zuma. But, the opposite was true,” the DA said. “If 2017 showed us one thing, it is that in the eyes of the ANC, Jacob Zuma can do no wrong. The party will support him through thick and thin, ignoring constitutional violations, theft, and country-wide State Capture. Because Jacob Zuma and the ANC are the same – neither of which are fit for office,” it said. “President Zuma has failed dismally, and as such scores an “F”, the lowest possible grade.” Deputy President: Cyril Ramaphosa (E) The DA cited Ramaphosa’s silence and at times complicity in the ANC as his biggest failings. This includes a failure to address the Gupta leaks, Marikana, and continued votes of no confidence against the president. “This is the mark of an uncaring, detached individual who is unfit to be Deputy President, never mind President. Ramaphosa thus scores an ‘E’,” the DA said. Social Development: Bathabile Dlamini (F) 
Oversaw SASSA grants crisis
SASSA failed to terminate its unlawful contract with CPS/Net1 by 1 April 2017, as required by the Constitutional Court.
Dlamini appears to be deliberately stiﬂing progress in acquiring a new service provider, and this resulted in the department losing a Director-General (DG) and SASSA losing a CEO.
A commission of inquiry has been ordered to determine the Minister Dlamini’s role in the crisis. The commission is set to begin on the 22 January 2018.
SASSA obtained a mere 46% of its KPIs this year.
The department needs to review social grants in line with the poverty levels as children need to have proper nutrition at as early an age as possible. In order to prevent stunting due to malnutrition, every eﬀort must be made to ensure proper nutrition by strengthening the social security system.
We maintain that a hybrid system of delivery is not only viable, but in the best interests of all stakeholders. Only the Minister and her associates stand to gain from the ongoing chaos.
 Public Enterprises: Lynne Brown (F) 
Minister Brown is a captured, ineffective and silent Minister, who is responsible for the appointment of board members at key state-owned entities Denel, Transnet, Alexkor, SA Express, Eskom and Safcol.
Through these boards, SOEs have been deeply embroiled in state capture, with the alleged looting of billions of rands through corrupt procurement and consulting tenders reliably linked to the Gupta-Zuma nexus.
The former Eskom Chairperson has stated unequivocally in Parliament’s Eskom enquiry that Brown has an association with the Guptas, and had a hand in manipulating the Board on instructions from the President himself.
The DA has publicly condemned Minister Brown and reported her to the Public Protector and Parliamentary Ethics Committee for investigation. Minister Brown is captured and must be removed at once.
 Mineral Resources: Mosebenzi Zwane (F) 
Minister Zwane is a well-known Gupta-stooge, having proved his worth to the captured through the Vrede Dairy Farm project, while still Free State MEC of Agriculture. Under his watch, all departmental decisions have been geared toward capturing resources – at the expense of workers and companies.
The mining sector is in turmoil, following the gazetting of a new Mining Charter this year – an attempt to secure the interests of ANC cronies. This cost the industry R50 billion, and will be subject to judicial review later this month.
The new Mining Charter must be scrapped without delay, and a proper consultative process must take place to develop guidelines that will benefit all who participate in the industry – rather than just those with close connections to the ruling party. Share schemes for miners need to genuinely empower workers and be economically viable.
The department must rid itself of Minister Zwane and his cadres if it is to be seen as a source of support and growth for the industry. Investors will never be attracted when state corruption is rife and the determining factor for decision-making is the exploitation of resources for a connected few.
  Energy: David Mahlobo (F) 
This department has been plagued by failings around the Strategic Fuel Fund (SFF), PetroSA, renewable energy and the nuclear deal with the merry-go-round of ministers having little leadership input.
There have been three ministers over the past year, all of which mandated with one goal: force through the nuclear deal, as soon as possible.
The SFF saga, under Minister Joemat-Pettersson, saw the sale of 10 million barrels of strategic fuel to private entities at knock-down prices. The sale, subject to an ongoing court case, could see billions of rands lost, with the fund having to buy back fuel at a much higher price. Despite this, Joemat-Pettersson is set to receive a R2.1 million golden handshake for her dodgy dealings.
PetroSA posted a R1.4 billion loss for the 2016/17 financial year.
Despite the Nuclear Deal being blocked in court, it remains an impending reality. With Kubayi and Pettersson failing to get this pushed through, Mahlobo has been parachuted in to clinch the deal.
South Africa cannot afford – and doesn’t need – a multibillion rand nuclear deal. The DA will fight it on every front.
 Higher Education & Training: Hlengiwe Mkhize (F) 
The most urgent task of the department is to present a credible plan for the funding of higher education based on sound analysis, rather than populist rhetoric.
The Heher Commission has now recommended a number of untenable propositions, from scrapping NSFAS in favour of private lenders to accessing pensions and unemployment funds at will. Yet the department continues to tread water – resulting in bizarre rumours of social grant cuts and VAT increases in an attempt by the President to win public support.
The replacement of the Minister in the midst of a funding crisis serves to underscore the department’s lack of vision.
TVET colleges remain in disarray, and not at the required standard to be a suitable alternate option for students.
The DA has recommended a model of tiered financial support for students from different income groups, while continuing to collect fees from those who can afford it. No academically qualifying student should be denied further education due to a lack of funding.
 Police: Fikile Mbalula (E) 
In more than seven months on the job, Minister Mbalula has failed to appoint a permanent Hawks Head, while his predecessor Nathi Nhleko was an active participant in a Police “civil war,” protecting an allegedly corrupt Phahlane and the irregularly appointed former Hawks Head Berning Ntlemeza from the consequences of their actions.
While the top brass are in a state of flux, the police on the ground have become increasingly under-capacitated, under-resourced, under-trained and under-staffed. As a result, they are falling ever further behind in the war on crime.
The latest crime statistics reveal that on average 52 South Africans are murdered and 109 raped every day, and the DA established that the SAPS execute less than 1% of domestic violence arrest warrants.
In the 2016/17 financial year, more than a quarter of a million drug-related crimes were detected, and the political killings in KwaZulu Natal remain far from solved.
The Hawks have also failed to make any demonstrable progress in investigating or arresting individuals linked to the capture of the South African state.
 Water & Sanitation: Nomvula Mokonyane (F) 
This year has been punctuated by the department’s failure to deal with the ongoing drought, affecting most of the country. This is as a result of the failures of the department of Water and Sanitation to maintain and upgrade the water infrastructure in this country. This was further shown by the Green Drop report of 2014 which indicated that 84% of sewer plants in the country are at critical risk, high risk or medium risk – prone to leaks and wastage.
Quite aside from having failed to get ahead of the drought, in spite of being forewarned, the Ministry is further exacerbating the harm being done by dragging its feet on the declaration of the drought in the Western Cape as a national disaster.
Administratively, the department achieved only 28% of its infrastructure targets despite overspending its budget by R110.8 million. On top of this, they generated unpaid invoices of R1.5 billion and an overdraft of R2.2 billion, which must be accounted for in the next financial year before the new budget can even be implemented.
 Health: Aaron Motsoaledi (F) 
The Life Esidimeni tragedy, which claimed the lives of 143 mentally ill South Africans, remains a stain of the conscience of this department.
Hundreds of people in KwaZulu-Natal have died due to the oncology crisis in this province. The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) found that the National and Provincial Departments of Health were guilty of infringing upon the Constitutional rights of patients.
It was revealed that the average waiting period for a patient to be seen by an oncologist is five months, and those waiting to receive radiotherapy usually wait 8 months.
The Minister has admitted that there are currently 38 000 vacancies in the public healthcare system, while at the same time revealing that a staggering R2.6 billion has been paid out for medical negligence claims over the past 4 years.
This flagrant lack of management of such a crucial department is paid for in lives, as the overwhelming majority of South Africans continue to suffer at the hands of a failing public health care system.
 Scores for the remainder of Government Departments are as follows: 
Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries: Senzeni Zokwana (F)
Arts & Culture: Nathi Mthethwa (F)
Basic Education: Angie Motshekga (F)
Communication: Mmamoloko Kubayi (F)
Cooperative Governance & Traditional Affairs: Des Van Rooyen (E)
Defence & Military Veterans: Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula (D)
Economic Development: Ebrahim Patel (C)
Environmental Affairs: Edna Molewa (E)
Finance: Malusi Gigaba (E)
Home Affairs: Ayanda Dlodlo (E)
Human settlements: Lindiwe Sisulu (E)
International Relations & Cooperation: Maite Nkoana-Mashabane (E)
Justice & Constitutional Development: Michael Masutha (F)
Labour: Mildred Oliphant (F)
Presidency: Jeff Radebe (D)
Public Service and Administration: Faith Muthambi (F)
Public Works: Nathi Nhleko (F)
Rural Development & Land Reform: Gugile Nkwinti (F)
Science & Technology: Naledi Pandor (C)
Small Business Development: Lindiwe Zulu (E)
Sport & Recreation: Thulas Nxesi (D)
State Security: Bongani Bongo (E)
Telecommunications and Postal Services: Siyabonga Cwele (E)
Tourism: Tokozile Xasa (D)
Trade & Industry: Rob Davies (E)
Transport: Joe Maswanganyi (E)
Women in the Presidency: Susan Shabangu (F)
 Read: Myeni lands R1 million a year advisor job – with SAA back in sight: report