CareerJunction has published its latest salary review for the end of the year 2017, showing what people earn in 116 jobs across 10 different categories in South Africa. As part of its data processing, the jobs portal also provides a general overview of salary variation differences across South Africa’s three major economic provinces, namely Gauteng, the Western Cape and KwaZulu Natal. These provinces cover the three major metros (Joburg, Cape Town and Durban) which account for the bulk of South Africa’s economic activity. In the six months between salary reports, there have been some shifts for regional salaries across different categories – though the general trend has stayed the same: Gauteng remains the highest paying province for most job categories, while KZN stays the lowest-paying. One of the bigger shifts seen is the Western Cape’s rise to be the generally higher-paying province when it comes to the ICT sector. In the mid-year review, both Gauteng and the Western Cape were paying around 1.5% higher than the national average for ICT jobs – but in November, this has shifted to 4% higher for Gauteng and 6.5% higher for the Western Cape. On the flip side, the Western Cape’s salary offers for finance jobs has dropped significantly – from 14.5% lower than national average in the mid-year review, to 22% lower by November. Here, KZN has improved salary offers, from 11% less than average, to only 5% less than average in November. The tables below outline the average salaries offered for all jobs across the 10 categories assessed by CareerJunction. The salary values represent the average maximum for ‘intermediate’ employees. For a detailed look at the range for starting and senior salaries, check out BusinessTech’s previous coverage. Read: South African salaries in 2017: what people earn right now Here’s how much you can expect to get paid in Joburg, Cape Town and Durban: Figures have been rounded. Architecture and Engineering Building and Construction  Warehousing and Logistics  Information and Communication Technology  Medical and Health  Finance  Marketing  Sales  Admin, Office and Support  Manufacturing and Assembly  Read: The salary gaps between Joburg, Cape Town and Durban are shrinking